# Image-Enhancement-and-Registration
This repository contains the final project of my Digital Signal Processing course where we created a pipeline for enhancing a noisy and blurry image and then overlapping it on another reference image using traditional image registration techniques.

Run the `image_registration.m` script on octave or matlab. It will prompt you to select the image that you want to transform. Once you select your image, it gets sent to the `main_pipeline.m` script where we add some synthetic gaussian noise and blur to it. Afterwards, we denoise the image using a smoothing filter. We then apply Wiener filter and perform deconvolution to remove the blur. For each of the stages, we also show the corresponding frequency domain representations using FFT. This makes it easier to visually interpret the noise and how the transformations help in removing these noises.

Finally, the enhanced image is passed back to the `image_registration.m` script where it then asks you for a reference image on which you want to overlap your refined image. Once you select your reference image, you will be prompted to select 8 corresponding points in your original image and the reference image. Maintain the following sequence: At first select a point in the image on the left which is your initial image. For each point selected, you have to select the corresponding point in the image on the right which is your reference image. After you have selected 8 pairs of such points, the script will take some time to apply homography transform. Once it's done, it will show you the overlapped output in a separate window.

This kind of application takes place in MRI and astrophotography where multiple images need to be enhanced and overlapped for practical use cases. You can try it out using the image pairs we have provided in our repository. However, the manual task of selecting corresponding pairs of points in two images are now being replaced by the help of AI models.
